[JS] Add Middleware Documentation (#1174)
SAP/cloud-sdk: docs-js/features/middleware.mdx

---
id: middleware
title: Middleware
sidebar_label: Middleware
description: How the SAP Cloud SDK behaviour is adjusted using middlewares.
keywords:
  - sap
  - cloud
  - sdk
  - JavaScript
  - TypeScript
  - resilience
  - middleware
---

> ## Middleware Concept

Author: yes I like this

The main purpose of the SAP Cloud SDK is to execute asynchronous HTTP requests.
This can either happen via a generated [OData](./odata/execute-request#setting-middlewares) or [OpenAPI](./openapi/execute-request#setting-middlewares) client or the [http client](./connectivity/http-client#setting-middlewares).
Either way, the final result after fetching destinations and doing various other things is an [axios](https://github.com/axios/axios) request.
Sometimes you want to adjust the way the SAP Cloud SDK executes the axios request.

The middleware adds a very flexible way to add custom functionality to the request execution.

> The API for the middleware looks like:

Reviewer: [pp] The API for the middleware is as follows:

[req] complete sentence.

```ts
export interface MiddlewareIn {
  fn: () => Promise<HttpResponse>;
  context: HttpMiddlewareContext;
  skipNext: () => void;
}

export type MiddlewareOut = () => Promise<HttpResponse>;

export type Middleware = (options: MiddlewareIn) => MiddlewareOut;
```

The middleware receives a `MiddlewareIn` option and returns a `MiddlewareOut`.
Let's investigate the different properties:

- The `fn` handed in is the original HTTP request from the SAP Cloud SDK.
- The `context` provides information on the request like URL, headers and HTTP method.
- The `skipNext` will exit all following middlewares
- The `MiddlewareOut` is the new function including the additional logic.

> This seems abstract in the beginning, but the example in the next section will bring some concreteness to the abstract topic.

Author: like it

## Example Middleware

> As a simple example assume you want to ensure that your response data does not contain only uppercase characters.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
As a simple example assume you want to ensure that your response data does contain only uppercase characters.
```

i think the 'not' is wrong here

A middleware doing that would look like:

```ts
const uppercaseMiddleware: Middleware = options => async () => {
  const response = await options.fn();
  return response.data.toUpperCase();
};
```

> and you would add it via the `middleware` property to your request:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Add it to the request via the `middleware` property as shown below:
```

```ts
const response = await executeHttpRequest(httpsDestination, {
  middleware: [uppercaseMiddleware],
  method: 'get'
});
```

You can add multiple middlewares which are added one by one to the request.
The execution order is from left to right in the array.
Assume the response data of your request is `The answer to everything is:`.
Depending on the order of the middlewares the result will be:

```ts
const addFortyTwoMiddleware: Middleware = options => async () => {
  const response = await options.fn();
  return response.data + 'Forty-Two';
};

let response = await executeHttpRequest(httpsDestination, {
  middleware: [addFortyTwoMiddleware, uppercaseMiddleware],
  method: 'get'
});

console.log(response.data); // 'THE ANSWER TO EVERYTHING IS: FORTY-TWO`

response = await executeHttpRequest(httpsDestination, {
  middleware: [uppercaseMiddleware, addFortyTwoMiddleware],
  method: 'get'
});

console.log(response.data); // 'THE ANSWER TO EVERYTHING IS: Forty-Two.
```

> In the context of resilience the order of middlewares becomes crucial.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the context of resilience, the order of middlewares becomes crucial.
```

A timeout should be added first, then a circuit breaker followed by a retry.
The SAP Cloud SDK provides default resilience middlewares so that you do not have to worry about the details in most cases.

> You find detailed information on the resilience topic in a [dedicated documentation](../guides/resilience).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can find detailed information on the resilience topic in a [dedicated documentation](../guides/resilience).
```
